chore(website): PostgreSQL CDC blog (#8187)
cloudquery/cloudquery: website/pages/blog/postgres-cdc-to-any-destination.mdx

---

> title: PostgreSQL CDC (Change-Data-Capture) to any destination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Stream Changes from PostgreSQL to Any Destination with Change Data Capture
```

tag: announcement

> date: 2023/12/14

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023/02/20
```

description: >-
  In this blog we will talk about how to stream changes from PostgreSQL

>   to any destination with CloudQuery and no queue or Kafka required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  to any destination with CloudQuery.
```

I don't feel good about mentioning no queues or no Kafka.

author: yevgenypats
---

import { BlogHeader } from "../../components/BlogHeader"

<BlogHeader/>

> One of the most powerful features of PostgreSQL is its ability to replicate data, and in this article, we'll take a deep dive into the topic of logical replication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the most powerful features of PostgreSQL is its ability to replicate data, and in this article we'll take a deep dive into the topic of logical replication.
```

As herman suggested an intro would be nice as well

> 

Reviewer: Maybe we can add a section here to show how CloudQuery now allows you to sync from postgres, before diving into the internals?

## What is CDC?

> CDC (Change-Data-Capture) is a [term](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_data_capture) used in a set of design patterns in databases where one can track changes to the data and act upon it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[CDC (Change-Data-Capture)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_data_capture) is a term used in a set of design patterns in databases where one can track changes to the data and act upon it.
```

> [CDC (Change-Data-Capture)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_data_capture) is a term used in a set of design patterns in databases where one can track changes to the data and act upon it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[CDC (Change-Data-Capture)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_data_capture) is a set of design patterns in databases where one can track changes to the data and act upon it.
```

> In PostgreSQL, CDC can be achieved via a feature called logical replication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In PostgreSQL, CDC can be achieved using the [logical replication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/logical-replication.html) feature.
```
Could also refer to a specific PG version rather than `current`

## What is Logical Replication?

PostgreSQL supports two types of replication: physical replication and logical replication.
Physical replication creates a complete copy of the data, including the underlying storage structure,

> whereas logical replication only replicates changes to the data, such as the insertions, updates, and deletions of rows in tables.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
whereas logical replication only replicates changes to the data, such as insertions, updates, and deletions of rows in tables.
```

> Logical replication provides a more flexible and efficient way to replicate data as it only replicates the changes in the data,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Logical replication provides a more flexible and efficient way to replicate data as it only replicates changes to the data,
```

rather than the entire dataset. This can help to minimize the overhead of replication and reduce the amount of disk space required to store the replicated data.

## How Does Logical Replication Work?

> In PostgreSQL, logical replication is achieved by replicating changes made to the data in the form of write-ahead logs (`WALs`) records.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In PostgreSQL, logical replication is achieved by replicating changes made to the data in the form of write-ahead log (`WAL`) records.
```

These records contain all the necessary information to recreate the changes that were made to the data,
including the type of change (insert, update, or delete),
the time the change was made, and the actual data that was changed.

The WAL records are written to disk on the master server,
and a separate process, known as the WAL sender, sends the WAL records to the replica server.
The replica server then applies the changes to its own copy of the data.
This process happens in real-time, so the replica server's copy of the data is always up-to-date with the master server's copy.

## How CloudQuery Uses Postgres Logical Replication to Sync Postgres to Any Other Destination

> CloudQuery PostgreSQL source plugin gives you the ability to sync data/changes in real time from a PostgreSQL database, directly to any

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CloudQuery PostgreSQL source plugin provides the ability to sync data and changes in real time from a PostgreSQL database, directly to any
```

> of the supported [destinations](https://www.cloudquery.io/docs/plugins/destinations/overview), with the need for Kafka or any intermediary (You can still stream to Kafka or Google PubSub).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of the supported [destinations](/docs/plugins/destinations/overview), without the need for Kafka or any intermediary (You can still stream to Kafka or Google PubSub).
```

with or without?

> This gives a much simpler setup to operate by just running one CloudQuery binary!

Reviewer 2: Run one binary which in turn downloads and runs more binaries for you... doesn't sound very nice, maybe express in a different way.

> In this section, we will go through how our CloudQuery PostgreSQL source plugin works internally. (For running and configuration, refer to the docs.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the following section, we will go through how our CloudQuery PostgreSQL source plugin works internally. (For running and configuring, refer to the [docs](https://www.cloudquery.io/docs/quickstart/macOS).)
```

### Set `wal_level` to logical

To use logical replication, you will need to make sure you started your database with `wal_level`.

> See our docs on how to set `wal_level` to logical in various environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [our documentation](/docs/plugins/sources/postgresql/cdc) on how to set `wal_level` to logical in various environments.
```

### Create a publication

> CloudQuery creates a publication for all or a subset of the specified tables via the [`CREATE PUBLICATION`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createpublication.html) command.

Reviewer 2: I don't feel good about linking to `QUOTED COMMANDS`. Maybe provide the links separately in parens, like so:
> `CREATE PUBLICATION` [docs](https://...)
Same goes in L63 and L79, L81
